[SOMBER MUSIC]
>> I always dreamed
of becoming an artist,
but my parents said it wasn't
a practical career choice.
Despite their advice,
from a young age,
I knew this was my
path and was determined
to do whatever it
took to get there.
After graduating high
school, I met Sarah.
She was a couple of
years older than me
and had been supporting herself
by working as a video editor
in Los Angelese.
I was inspired by her
passion for making movies,
and we instantly
started collaborating
and became best friends.
In 2010, I won a
scholarship competition
to go to art school
in San Francisco,
and we moved up there together.
After living in this city
for a couple of years,
we are continuously inspired
by the melting pot of women
we met everywhere we went.
As we got to know
each of them, we
realized how similar our
fears and obstacles were
and how empowering it is to
hear other women's stories.
At school, I felt frustrated
by the media's representation
of women and felt like there
was little I could do about it
by sitting in a classroom.
I decided to leave
school to make
art that empowers
women and girls
and focus on that full time.
It was a big deal for me
to give up my scholarship.
So I called Sarah, and
she met me for lunch.
We talked about all the
amazing women we knew,
and how many diverse
perspectives were missing
from movies and television.
We knew there had to
be other people who
wanted to hear
stories from women
of different ages,
backgrounds, and beliefs.
So that day, we decided to
launch a crowdfunding campaign
to travel the United States
and make a documentary.
>> It's really jumping
off of a cliff.
Like, you gotta jump off
the cliff and step right
into your fears.
And there's no--
there's no in between.
>> You take the risk.
And then the positive
things will come to you.
Everybody on this planet
should wish something.
>> I had to come to the point
where I'd be willing to give up
everything.
What I discovered is
that anything of value
doesn't really leave.
>> It may seem so big, or so
impossible, or so daunting,
or so expensive, or so far.
>> Maybe you don't have a
car, and you don't have this,
or you don't have that.
Like, there are always
ways to get what you want.
>> When you open your heart
and you believe in yourself,
you're willing to mess up.
You're willing to jump full out.
And that's when
the magic happens.
>> If you just trust and
begin, things unfold.
People show up.
It's like they drop
right out of the sky,
right when you need them.
>> As soon as we decided
to take this leap of faith,
magical things started
happening everywhere we went.
Just days after reaching our
Kickstarter goal, we met Chirp.
>> Chirp is this incredible guy
who had just traveled across
the country in his school
bus that he converted to run
on vegetable oil.
Within minutes of meeting
him and telling him
about our project, he said, let
me think about it overnight,
but I'm pretty sure I
want you to take my bus.
>> We were totally blown away.
We couldn't believe that
someone we had just met
was willing to give us
such a generous gift.
>> The next day, Chirp called
to tell us that he wanted us
to take his beloved home on
wheels for our cross-country
adventure.
And his magical school
bus became the catalyst
for everything else to come.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> When I got your email,
of course, automatically,
being who I am, I got nervous.
I'm like, oh, my god.
They want me to paint a bus.
There was something inside
me told me, like, Michelle,
put all your fears aside.
I have to do this.
I'm hoping that when you're
riding through the country,
everyone who sees it will
just be touched by it.
They won't even have to know
what's going on with the bus.
They don't even have to know why
there's all these women painted
on the bus.
But just as long
as they're touched,
and maybe they just want
to better themselves
just because you just
drove down their block.
You know?
Like, wow, that could be
their changing moment in life.
You guys are just going to
leave a beautiful trail.
And then maybe people will
just want to follow it.
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> Two days ago,
I didn't know you.
Right?
And you didn't know me.
And that's the cool part,
I think, about just plain
being in the moment and living
is that things find you.
>> So I contacted you because
I saw your bus outside
of my work, well, my ex-work.
But I had just quit.
And immediately when I walked
out and I saw your bus,
I thought to myself, this is one
of those cosmic moments where
timing is aligning and
something weird is happening.
And I thought to
myself, I can do that.
Like, there's a bus right there.
And that's like, just right
in my face, telling me, like,
yes, this is the right choice.
This was the right decision.
You should be going
and doing what
you want to do
and not be wasting
your time in a place
that doesn't really
allow you to make any sort of
meaningful mark with your life.
I think there's, like,
a sense of strength
behind being able to express
exactly how you're feeling
and being real about it.
>> I think it's a human need,
to be seen for who you are,
who you truly are.
I mean, that's what
we want, right?
>> When I saw your project, I
saw that that was exactly what
you were doing.
There's no dogma.
There's no rules.
There's no shoulds.
It's seeing people and
what they have to offer.
>> Each being is a different
expression of this life.
And everyone is doing it so
differently, so distinctly.
>> I've fallen in love with
so many amazing people when
I've traveled, just people that
I just would have never met had
I just not been granted the
big gift of leaving my place
of knowingness.
>> Jeez, if I had
to do it again,
I'd do all the same things.
I had way too much fun.
I was a flight attendant
with Flying Tigers, which
is a non-scheduled airline.
We flew anywhere in
the world at any time.
And once, I was on this
flight with zebras.
They were going from one
zoo to the other zoo.
And I had my luggage
too close to the zebras.
And it went potty
on my suitcase.
[LAUGHS]
The only thing I haven't done
that I really wanted to do
is hop a freighter.
[TRAIN HORN]
>> Sometimes my heart aches to
go back to that really magical
time in my life.
It was four ladies and, you
know, a dog, and a banjo.
And it was definitely the
most empowering experience
I've had in my life, just
being this tiny, precious,
clandestine cargo on
this giant machine that
is moving to somewhere.
A destination that you
don't necessarily know
is one of the most
amazing feelings
that you could ever have.
>> I didn't do that.
But I did hitchhike
from New York to here.
It only took us
three days, and we
got dropped off right
at our front door.
That was cool.
>> It's unusual, I
would say, for people,
and somewhat alarming, to look
at women trusting the world.
People would be
like, oh, my god.
What are you ladies
doing on here?
Like, how are you
fending for yourselves?
>> You traveled alone?
But how?
Weren't you bored?
Weren't you scared?
Weren't you lonely?
And it's like, oh, my god, no.
You guys make it seem like I
took a rocket ship to Mars.
Like, this is really
not that scary.
>> It's an interesting being
traveling around the world.
You know, you have to trust
yourself, your instinct.
You have to trust your
intuition, your own center.
And you have to
trust other people.
[LAUGHS]
And so there's an exchange
that could put you
in a vulnerable position.
>> No matter where we went,
whether it was a big city
or a small suburban
neighborhood,
there always seemed
to be somebody,
somewhere who felt compelled
to tell us to be careful out
there.
>> We traveled 10,000 miles.
And we spent almost 200 nights
sleeping in parking lots,
along mountain tops,
and on city streets.
But in the end, the
most notable encounters
were love notes left on our
windshield and invitations
for home-cooked meals.
>> We learned that people
are inherently good.
And when you're striving to
make the world a better place,
someone will always show up to
help you out in a time of need.
>> When one of us activate that
knowingness within ourselves
and we follow the path, that
impulse from our hearts,
it is irresistible to
other people around us.
And it gives them permission
to also take the leap.
And those who maybe have
an extra bed in their house
or have a few extra
dollars to spare
are so touched by
that activation
that they yearn to support
us because they're also
being gifted with
this permission
to support themselves
in their path
when they're in our presence.
>> There's a traditional Navajo
prayer that's "as we walk,
beauty is on every side.
Beauty is before.
It's below us, above us.
As we walk, the universe
is walking with us.
As we walk, we walk in beauty."
>> That's what empowerment
is, really is just like being
so solid within yourself that
adventure isn't scary anymore.
>> I think that women in
our society hold a lot in.
We've been taught that our
emotions are really not OK.
And yet, our emotions
are our guideposts
to what's going on in the world.
>> I always identified myself
as a science-minded person.
And I noticed that I wasn't
very happy looking at the world
from a pure state of logic.
And then something
switched on within me.
I dropped into my heart,
and I started just
following the impulse of
the heart in my actions.
And time and time
again, magical things
started happening that I
couldn't, in a logical way,
explain.
How is it that the
perfect beings are always
magnetized into my life?
How is it that mathematically
it was impossible to get
those bills paid?
Everything kind of
just worked out.
So now, after this journey,
what I've discovered is that,
actually, what is
most efficient--
this is the engineering
me speaking--
is for all of us to
drop into our hearts
and allow the brain to just be
a tool in service of the heart.
>> As much credit as I get for
using words in effective ways,
sometimes they fail me when it
comes to doing things that just
feel right.
But I never regretted
that decision
I made following my gut.
>> If something says,
call this one, do that,
make sure you bring
an extra battery,
make sure you take this car,
make sure you go there first,
all that stuff, you
want to listen to it.
You know, you can always
analyze something down the road.
But when you get that
gut feeling about do this
or do that, do it.
And you'll be happy you did.
You don't need to know why.
You'll find out why.
>> What's clear about you guys
showing up right here and now
is that I just have
been having, like,
a series of dreams recently that
I come across this mountain top
circle of women.
And they'd say, welcome.
We've been waiting for you.
It's like suddenly I'm accepted
into this group of elder women.
And I kept thinking
to myself, why?
What have I done to be
allowed into this circle.
After an entire
lifetime of thinking
that I was supposed to be
all of these different people
and things, to just come across
these women who just said,
nothing, you're
just who you are,
and you're traveling a
path, and you've found us,
and therefore, you are accepted.
So when you guys showed up
here the other night and said,
we're doing this
goddess project,
and we want to talk
to you, I'm like,
why do you want to talk to me?
I live day to day,
paycheck to paycheck.
I make my art when I
can and love people.
I mean, I don't see anything
extraordinary about it.
But that's just the point.
We're all extraordinary.
We don't have to
do or be anything.
We just have to be.
>> Throughout our
cross-country journey,
we spontaneously met
women everywhere we went.
Each interview was
unique because we
asked them to talk about what
they felt most called to share.
>> My name is Noramay Cadena.
My family is an immigrant
family from Mexico.
And before me, no one
had ever been to college.
When I was growing up, we lived
in the house my parents rented.
It had two bedrooms.
And at one time, there were
10 people living in it.
I remember living without water.
I remember going without
electricity at times.
So as I was growing up,
my mom said repeatedly,
you have to go to school.
You have to do well
so you're not like me.
I don't want you
to have this life.
And to really hammer that home,
when I was in middle school,
I was 13, and she
had me come work
in the factory with
her for a summer.
So for a whole summer, I got
to sit for eight hours a day
and put hooks on the
end of bungee cords.
And it was a horrible
experience, and I hated it.
I mean, things like that
are very hard to forget.
And there were the little
pieces along the way that really
fueled a desire in me to give
my parents a different life
and to enable that
opportunity for other people
around my community.
It took me a while to forgive
myself for putting myself
in that situation.
As a teen mom, I really
felt like my parents
had put so much faith in me,
had sacrificed so much for me.
And I felt like I was
letting them down.
There was a gentleman who had
graduated from my high school,
and he was an MIT student.
And I go to meet with him.
And he says, you know, I
hear you're good at math
and you're good at science.
Have you ever
considered engineering?
And I said, what's that?
At the time when
I had my daughter,
he was almost trying to sell
me on the idea of moving
3,000 miles across country.
Are you friggin' crazy.?
Finally, I said,
look, I'll apply.
And I got admitted.
My daughter was a little
over one when we packed up
and moved away to Boston.
There were certainly
the people who said,
you know, you're
being a bad mother.
You need to focus on parenting.
But I was trying so
hard to be two people,
to be the great
parent, and to be
the student I needed
to be to make it
to the next level for us.
It was a big goal
of a better life.
When you're successful,
it doesn't only help you.
It helps your siblings.
It helps your parents.
It helps your children.
And it's an
eye-opening experience
for so many people
in the neighborhood
for the next generation.
>> When my niece Haviland
was 12 years old,
she shared her poetry with
me for the first time.
I told her that it was good.
Then she said, no, it isn't.
My teachers say I'm too dark.
And I realized in that
moment that Haviland, at 12,
was already being asked
to fit into a box.
It was so small that her real
voice could never be heard.
She also said at that
same time that she
would love to be a
writer when she grew up,
but she knew a woman couldn't
make a living as a writer.
And so she was going
to be either a teacher
or a secretary.
For Haviland, in
2004, to think those
were her only options for
a profession made me nuts.
And so I started
thinking about what
I could do for
Haviland and girls
like her to not have any rules
or boundaries around what they
could be.
The idea just kind of
like fell out of me.
I woke up one day, and
I was like, oh, they
need to write about their
lives for a couple of weeks.
We'll add some dances
and some songs.
And they'll collaborate
with each other
to turn it into a
performance piece.
And then, at the
same time, invite
them to meet a whole
bunch of fabulous women
who are making a living doing
things that they might not
think you can make a living
doing, just to kind of blow
their minds with what
their future could hold.
Haviland, my niece for
whom I created the program,
just graduated from
college with a double major
in astrophysics and philosophy.
So it's a far cry
from that girl who
thought our only options
were teacher and secretary.
She actually met an
astrophysicist in the circle.
And it was the first time
that Haviland had realized
that that was a possibility.
>> When you're able
to help someone grow,
or find an opportunity,
or find their way,
you gain so much
out of it yourself.
Growing other people
is a great reward.
And we should do more of that.
Through Latinas in
STEM, we're really
trying to improve the pipeline
of Latina women into STEM.
STEM is Science, Technology,
Engineering, and Math.
We're all first
generation college grads,
so we've been there
from the very beginning
of that pipeline.
And we know what it took for us
to even consider this career.
So we want to do what
others have done for us
and more to really
make a change.
We have our K to 12 outreach.
And that really focuses on just
putting relevant people out
in the community so
that the students feel
like, hey, she looks like me.
She grew up like me.
And if she did it, I can do it.
>> I wish that, for every young
person that's moving along,
that they can just bump into
that perfect moment that has
that life-changing, altering
experience that brings them
some light, direction, and
endurance, and courage,
and just joy.
>> Sometimes all it takes
is just one person to open
your eyes to a reality that
you never knew existed before.
By coming forth and
sharing their stories,
each of these women
did exactly that.
>> If there's one thing
we've learned throughout this
journey, it's that every
story is significant.
No matter who you
are or what you do,
there is someone out
there just waiting
to discover their
possibilities in your reality.
>> I am a voice teacher.
>> I'm a writer.
>> I'm a farmer.
>> I'm a vocalist composer.
>> Currently, I tattoo.
>> I'm practicing
Chinese medicine.
>> I am a showgirl shaman.
>> I'm a scientist.
>> A mime.
>> I'm a metalsmith.
>> I am currently unemployed.
>> I'm a visual artist,
and I play drums.
>> I teach beach yoga.
>> I'm a pianist and
musical director.
>> Our medium is fashion design.
>> Currently, I am cooking food.
>> Writing young adult
children's books.
>> Integrating and testing
satellites to get ready to send
them up in space.
>> Producing events
and concerts.
>> I'm raising my children.
>> Figuring out what I'm
going to do when I grow up.
[LAUGHS]
[GENTLE MUSIC]
[FUNKY MUSIC]
>> I look at some of
the commercials on TV.
And it paints women mostly
as a sex object or an object
to be marketed to.
Women make, like, 90% of
all purchasing decisions.
So it's a way to
propel a woman to shop.
>> The biggest paying people in
advertising are psychologists
and the human behavior experts.
That's why I haven't had
television around in a while.
You know, they must use
some really old suggestion
or something to make
people buy, buy, buy.
>> Everywhere we go, whether
we're driving in the car and we
see some type of marketing, or
we, you know, clock on the TV,
and every little station has
something different that says,
buy me, or you do
this, or you're not.
>> You know, you go
out and you buy stuff.
And you buy stuff because
you can tell by some advert,
oh, you need to buy these jeans.
And they will make you happy.
And they will make
everyone like you.
>> (SINGING) Big spender.
>> And you never think, well,
what hole are they trying
to fill?
Why are they trying to fill
some hole in their lives
with clothes or objects?
Maybe the hole is actually
just talking to people
and having community.
>> There is this illusion that
makes you feel like you have
to reach something, that you
are not whole how you are.
You are imperfect.
And you need something
else to make you perfect.
But this is not true.
>> It comes back to the
thoughts we consume.
It comes back to the
feelings we consume.
And a lot of that is
being spoon-fed to us,
whether we know it or not.
>> When was the last time you
turned on a TV and saw anything
that made your spirit soar?
And they're giving us these
images and these billboards
that sway in the brain
of the mass consciousness
towards self-destruction,
self-comparison,
self-criticism.
>> Sometimes I have no
idea how women, and how I,
can figure out how to see myself
as, like, a beautiful person.
>> The society that we operate
in doesn't cultivate that
relationship.
It tells us that we should not
like the body that we are in,
that we should want to have
blonder hair, that we should
want to have whiter teeth.
>> You have to get waxed.
You have to shave your legs.
You have to smell
really pretty, and--
>> We love big lips.
We love small nose.
We like this kind of hair.
>> We have to have big breasts
and a big butt because men want
that.
>> What?
>> --is going on?
>> There's always the prettier,
the skinnier, the stronger,
or the taller.
>> We should want
something, anything,
other than what
we actually have.
And that's because
nobody makes any money
if everybody's happy with
the bodies that they have.
>> It's disturbing that the
media is of such sway that even
little girls are already
beginning to nitpick
and self-criticize to an almost
hateful degree how they look.
>> Even if you know that
picture is airbrushed,
and the legs are made
longer, and the-- you know,
all those things are happening,
it's still formulating this
vision of a woman as beautiful
that you're never going to be.
>> Even if we don't fully
buy into ways of thought,
they're still so there
in the background.
It's really hard
to eradicate those.
>> I had a friend say
to me once, Jackie,
if you talk to me the
way you talk to yourself,
we wouldn't be friends.
That woke me up.
I realized, like, my
inner mental voice is not
doing me any favors.
>> We are our own worst critics
and judges, and we learn that.
It's a pattern we learned
from our parents, our society,
to put ourselves down.
>> What we say to our children
is what becomes their inner
voice.
But it's also true that
what we say to ourselves
becomes their inner voice.
And you can still tell your
child, you know, I love you,
and you're perfect
the way that you are.
But if you're not loving
yourself that same way,
they can energetically feel
how disappointed in yourself
you are, and therefore
how disappointed in them
you might be.
>> I have spent most of my
young adulthood undoing a lot
of, like, just the messages
that I'd been taught about
traditional narratives
of attractiveness.
I just kind of didn't
know how to be in my body
or feel my body.
And it's taken me a
lot of time and healing
to get to a place of feeling
empowered in bodily difference.
That feels new for me actually,
to be like, OK, I'm here,
I'm in my body, I'm
enjoying it, and I
want to be here for a while.
That's, like, it's hard to
show other people how much work
that takes, but it's been a lot.
>> I think just for me, it's by
the same wounding that almost
every woman has.
I started an eating disorder
because I live in this society,
and our magazines say that, if
you don't look like this, then
there's something
wrong with you.
There was, like, laxatives,
and then just not
eating for a while,
and then binging,
and not eating for a while.
And I had to change
everything I thought.
No more magazines.
No more TV.
Our society says that we
are supposed to be thin,
and that's good.
But the most important part is
going back and saying, like,
why do I think this way?
>> Who made those
belief systems?
Body shape, age,
all of these things
that are supposed
to make you unhappy,
or you're supposed
to believe in.
You should just question
them and ask yourself
whether they're really
true and whether you really
need to feel that way.
And do you really
need to be unhappy?
>> There are so many other
cultures in the world that
the younger look up to
the older generations.
And in our country,
in our culture,
that dynamic just
does not exist.
It's a youth-oriented media.
It's youth-obsessed media.
And what it's done is it's
instilled great insecurity
in women.
You hit a certain age--
you become invisible.
>> Someone I know just
was-- recently turned 30.
And she was moaning and
groaning about turning 30,
and, I feel so old, and I just--
I haven't-- I'm not where I
thought I would be at this
stage of my life.
I said to her, just
enjoy where you
are because you're going
to be 40 and 50 and 60,
and you're going to be
saying the exact same thing.
>> We can get trapped in what
society thinks we're supposed
to be.
And what I want
to say is this is
what a 78-year-old woman's
life can look like,
if you choose it.
[MUSIC - NANCY BERGGREN, "ONE
MORE SONG TO SING"]
(SINGING) The kids
say come home, Mama.
The grandkids miss your face.
You really ought
to slow down now,
and I fixed you up
a really nice place.
But I can't come
home right now, kids.
I've got some things to do.
You see, my book's
a best seller.
I met a new fella.
We're off to Timbuktu-wu-wu-wu.
And no, I can't come
home right now, kids.
I got some things to do.
I've got mountains to
climb, rivers to cross,
see all my dreams come true.
I'm laying down this heavy load.
I still got some gifts to bring.
I've got one more mountain, a
few more dreams, and one more
song to sing.
Yeah.
[WISTFUL PIANO MUSIC]
>> I grew up with all the
self-esteem issues that girls
still grow up with today.
We're not always kind to
each other, to ourselves,
as a woman, not always
kind to each other.
I do think women tend to not
be as supportive as they could
be, openly, because we feel it.
Right?
We do feel it.
I don't know why
we don't share it.
I don't know.
>> I think the important thing
is women being able to support
each other, and,
we not, you know,
do what we're trained to do,
which is to compete with each
other.
>> I felt very challenged as a
woman because of all the, you
know, makeup and fashion
industry kind of advertising
that's very, like, oh, you
have to be the prettiest,
and the best, and
the da da da da da.
And so you start looking around
at other women like, uhh,
and you get kind of paranoid.
>> And so what ends up happening
is you end up in an environment
of your own kind--
you feel more threatened
than nurtured.
I think that that has to
do with a basic insecurity
that women have sort of built
up over the years of this
being a very
male-oriented world.
[DRAMATIC MUSIC]
>> Making the decisions tonight
is extremely difficult. Tara.
>> I have for a long time
believed that competition is
one of the greatest lies that
was ever sold to us as women,
and we bought it so deeply that
many of us never fully trust
another woman.
>> Instead of
cutting a woman down,
which I have been trained to do,
growing up in American society,
in Western culture, I try to
give a compliment whenever I
can.
If I see a man and a woman
walking down the street,
I try to ask the
woman for directions.
I always try to ask
the woman first.
I try to create an opportunity
for her to be empowered.
>> We are pretty powerful and
can do a lot of really amazing
and wonderful things if
we hold each other up.
>> Even if you hear
a woman being catty,
letting her know that
she's beautiful in one way
or another--
she probably hasn't heard
that from very many women
who are strangers.
>> I think we all just need
to be committed to being each
other's allies through these
challenges that come up with
cultural conditioning and
bringing awareness to that
so that we can choose
to be more than that.
>> When I'm with a group of
women who are really choosing
to be real with
me, to be honest,
I feel like a part
of me can rest.
And from that resting
place, something else
can move through and come forth.
And it is my true power,
and it is their true power.
And it seems it
only reveals itself
from that really restful,
open, and safe space.
>> You will get so much
further in life when you start
to empower other women, and
they will empower you back.
>> I stand in solidarity with
all the women in this world.
In every woman, we
can see ourselves.
If we look deep enough, we'll
see that we're all the same.
And we're all made
of the same stuff.
>> I'm so grateful I chose to
come to this world in a female
body because the blessings
of the female body include--
there are infinite things.
But just to name a few, we
have bigger corpus callosums,
so we're able to
better integrate
left brain and right
brain information using
the unity of our intuitive, and
artistic, and creative nature,
and also our analytical
linear thinking
mode to weave those together
in the way we perceive reality.
We also have these
beautiful hormone cycles.
>> I started charting my own
cycle and how my moods were
on the particular
days of my cycle.
I was really blown
away that I felt
pretty much similar
to the previous month
on that same, exact day.
So it wasn't just, like, me.
It was this biological
clock, this rhythm that
was happening inside of me.
>> During the first
phase of the cycle,
as we go from menstruation
into ovulation,
our hormonal patterns causes
us to be effervescent,
to be extroverted, so we're
out there exploring and seeing
the world with these wide eyes.
And research shows that
waitresses get more tips
during ovulation
time because they
exude this external joy that is
just irresistible to the world.
And then, after
ovulation, our hormones
are shifted such that we're
a little bit more reserved.
We're more guarded.
We're not going to go out
there and take so many risks.
We want to drop inward and
be more still, more silent.
And we might be more
sensitive if people
press our buttons
during that time leading
into premenstrual week.
But that's also a gift because
it's a teacher for what works
and what doesn't
work for us, if we're
willing to be introspective
during that time.
>> It's a really powerful
time to journal, and rest,
and kind of have daydreams,
and reflect more,
and kind of drop into that
intuitive self, you know,
allow yourself to really
feel what's present for you
in your life.
In our very
stimulation-oriented,
activity-oriented
culture, we're not really
encouraged to take that time.
But in ancient times,
women were allowed
to just go be with other women.
>> So the work that I do
is allowing women to test
their taboos and to honor the
fact that they're bleeding
because, in our society, we've
seen menstruating as gross.
It's something that
we do not honor.
Most women do not
have a ceremony
around having their first blood.
It's just something that
we're always afraid of.
Like, when you're 13,
and you have your period,
it's more like, and
I'll give you a pad.
You know, that's
not a great thing.
You stained your sheets?
Like, that sucks.
You just ruined the sheets.
I don't think life's
supposed to be hell.
I don't think that we're
supposed to be in misery,
and everything that
we do is wrong.
What if our entire natural
process of having ups and downs
and bleeding is actually
something really beautiful
that we can create
as a healing process?
The Red Tent, we meet every new
moon to honor our shadow self,
to honor our dark
moon, our PMS time.
It's a time to bond as
sisters and to share.
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
If people want to start this in
their own community, say, like,
what do we want to talk about?
What do we want to do?
OK, we're going to come
together once a month,
and we're going to discuss this.
And you can talk
with your girls,
if you want to have a book group
reading, if you want to have
women's dances once a month.
You want a space for
your kids to come
play, whatever it
is, just someone has
to have the initiative
to actually say,
this what we're doing.
>> You know, we get so involved
in our lives, and our jobs,
and our roles, if you're a
wife, if you're a mother,
if you're an executive, and
whatever it is that you do,
or the things that you feel like
you're lacking in your life,
or not good enough.
And it's almost like
you get permission
to remember that you are
this beautiful, divine being
with gifts and this
great love in your heart
to share with the world.
>> There's a lot of
women who are struggling,
and they only have themselves.
So I think all women need to
just join together and just
love who we are.
Like, we are all just
such amazing creatures.
>> Human beings talking to each
other has historically been
the mode of healing.
So you and I can
sit here and chat,
and perhaps you've been through
something I've been through--
perhaps not, but
maybe your sister has,
or my sister, or whatever.
The longer we talk, the more
in common we'll have together.
>> There's always somebody
that can offer something to you
to make you feel better.
[MUSIC - NOMY LAMM, "IN THE
DARK"]
>> (SINGING) In the
dark, you're alone,
and you know what you want.
It's so amazing to see
the ways that our voices
and perspectives and
the things that we
hold so deep and
treasured, and we'll
protect so strongly that, like,
those voices are connected.
Then, just whatever we
do to actualize ourselves
in the world and
bring that voice out,
we'll find where
those connections are.
It's about keeping
your heart strong
and just holding out
through the isolation
so that we can find each other.
Yeah.
[GIGGLES]
[CHIMING MUSIC]
[SOFT PIANO MUSIC]
>> My name is Frances McCorkle.
>> And I'm Becky Fein, and our
focus specifically is sexual
assault prevention and
awareness building.
You know, I think that it's--
it really spawned from a
conversation that we had.
We kind of started talking
about both of our, like, quite
parallel experiences.
>> Becky told me her story,
and that was the first time
I'd really ever put
it into perspective,
and telling her was so powerful
and healing that we were like,
why was that so hard?
We feel so much better
just by saying it.
>> I feel very passionately
about women speaking out about
that abuse, and I feel very
passionately about women coming
together to support each other
and for us to raise awareness
of what's happening.
The abuse of women and
the abuse of children
is still so prevalent.
And I've been sexually harassed.
I've been sexually abused.
And I've hated being
a woman because of it.
That trauma perpetuates
throughout everything.
It has ripples
through everything.
>> But I can't imagine something
more important to fight
for than the end
of sexual violence.
>> Nobody forced her to drink.
I'm not saying that she
deserved to be raped, but--
>> How many of you guys in your
own experience with women have
learned that no means yes
if you know how to spot it?
>> Since 2006, a 64% increase
in violent sexual assaults--
now, what did they expect?
>> There is so much
victim blaming.
The person blames themselves.
Society blames them.
And I really think one of
the most important things
is to let people know that
it was not their fault.
There is no such thing
as a rapeable offense.
>> What we understand of sexual
assault in this society is that
it's a stranger, very violent.
For the vast majority of
people, that's not the case.
>> 75% of the time, it's
someone that you know,
whether you have just
met them at a party,
or they're your longtime
boyfriend, or husband,
or partner.
We're not just going to
isolate sexual violence
to men committing that.
Women do also, but the majority
of the time, it is men.
>> When my parents got divorced,
my mom got involved with a man
who was very, very abusive--
physically, sexually,
every other way.
For two solid years
of my very young life,
I didn't know if I was
going to live or die.
Something in me clicked off.
I understand what it is now.
It's called disassociation.
Different things
will trigger me,
and I become sort of
internally like a five
or six-year-old kid.
It's happened where I've
been in a grocery store,
and a father has been, you
know, yelling at a young kid.
And, like, [SNAPPING FINGERS]
that fast, I feel like I'm
going to throw up.
And I had no idea this was
what was going on with me.
It's hard.
And it's all-- and it's
all connected to that time
in my life when I was just
in this hypervigilant state.
So that is what I've
had to overcome.
And I know I'm not alone.
I have a group of women that I
see who have been my salvation,
really.
You've got to face the stuff,
and if you don't face it,
you can't get through it.
It's just going
to sit over there.
You have to be able to
be brave enough to do it,
to get through the pain of it.
Then, if you can do
it, I'm telling you,
you come out on the other side.
[MUSIC - DEBI RUUD, "SIMPLE
THINGS"]
When I'm on stage,
that's the safest place
that I am in my whole life.
I know in those
moments I'm doing
what I'm supposed to be doing.
(SINGING) --simple things.
>> I don't think there's
anything more powerful than
showing yourself.
>> (SINGING) --that keep my--
>> It is through hiding
that shame festers,
so the less we hide, the less
shame we will have, by default.
It's just the way it goes.
Hiding holds it in.
Stepping out and
showing it lets it go.
>> (SINGING) --girl.
And forgiveness is
a huge part of that,
too, because being able to
walk through those memories
and be so pissed off, and then
be able to go, it happened.
It's part of who I am.
I'm OK.
[VOCALIZING]
>> In the lineage of
women that I come from,
there is a history
of sexual abuse.
So in my own life, I
never had that experience.
But my mother and my grandmother
did have these experiences.
So when I grew within
the womb of my mother,
although she from her
essence loved me so much,
her womb was like a
bubble of so much pain.
And so when I received my
first moon and became a woman,
I had such a hard time.
This manifested in really
strong and painful menstruation.
And I couldn't understand why
as a young girl, but as I grew,
I began to recognize
that it wasn't
something that was my own.
This was something that
had been passed on to me.
So I did this
experiment in myself,
and I recognized that, yes,
that we can erase information
that we no longer
have any use for.
And we can implant
consciously information
that we choose for ourselves.
And so as I was
able to see that,
naturally, the symptoms of
my menstruation, of my moon,
they began to lighten.
>> When you do healing
work in your own life,
when you come to your own
truth in your own story,
you heal seven generations.
If a young woman at 13 or
14 does that healing work
in her life, it also heals her
mother, and her grandmother,
and maybe even her
great grandmother.
And it definitely will affect
the lives of her children
when she chooses to have them.
Because all the stuff
that we need to heal
is stuff that's probably
been a pattern in our family
lives for generations back.
>> In the past decade or so,
we've learned a lot more about
neuroplasticity.
We were being taught that all
this wiring happens when you're
really young, before you're
six, and then not a whole lot
changes.
But we're learning more and more
that new connections and things
rewire all the time.
>> At some point, somebody
has to say, you know what?
The buck stops here with me.
I'm not passing on the abuse.
I'm not passing on the shame.
I'm claiming my dignity.
I'm claiming my self-respect.
And this is how the new
story on Earth goes.
>> We've all come here as
volunteers to heal certain
aspects of the human history.
When something is unharmonious,
our bodies will tell us.
We get to the point
where we can't ignore it.
If you ignore it, we'll get
sicker and sicker and sicker.
>> Your fear, your anger,
your resentment is a chemical
compound that attacks
your own cells.
So if your cells hear,
god, you're so stupid.
You shouldn't have-- oh, I
can't believe-- ugh, ugh,
ugh-- like that, they behave
just like a child would
behave if they heard that.
They shut down, they get
sad, and they freeze up.
However, when cells hear,
you're learning, I love you,
I'll support you,
you're beautiful,
they go, [EXHALES]
well, thank you.
I'm good, and I'm capable,
and I'm going to keep going,
and we can do it!
So that's the
energy that you want
to be putting into yourself and
unplug from the matrix of fear.
>> If you look at alchemy, it's
about turning lead into gold.
It's about taking
the lead within,
the stuck places, the stuff
that we don't want to look at,
and using that to really
move forward in life.
>> Facing all the challenges
that come with suffering,
that come with physicality,
that come with being human,
through that process,
when you come back up,
there's always that
sunrise at the end of it.
And it's the new light.
It's the new consciousness that
comes through the challenge.
>> I photograph people who've
experienced severe trauma,
physical trauma that--
what's happened to them
is who they thought
that they were on a
large part, they've
had to totally renegotiate.
I photographed a woman who
had survived a plane wreck,
and she had a lot of burns,
but you see her lack of shame,
and yet you see
her vulnerability.
And you see that
that's in total more
of what it means to be a woman.
We're so taught to think
that vulnerability is this--
is shameful, and
it's something we
should hide or be
embarrassed of,
but then, in fact, that
being ultimately vulnerable
is the most powerful thing
you could be because it
is so incredibly scary to do.
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
I think that's what's so
impressive about my subjects,
that they are able to stand
for the human condition
and the state of vulnerability
as complete beauty
and capability.
[SOMBER MUSIC]
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
>> You're not your problems,
you're not your history,
and you're not your pain.
Who you really are is
this beautiful spirit,
full of creative energy,
and a body that has made it
against all odds to be here.
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
You have a powerful mission.
Your piece of the
puzzle is deeply
important to the rest of us.
And we're calling
you back to life now.
And you'll come back
to life at the rate
that you're willing to
digest and process fear.
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
You do that by bringing
love to where the fear is.
You bring love to
where the pain is.
where the hatred is.
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
And as that changes
inside of us,
it changes in the entire world.
[MUSIC - IMANI UZURI,
"BEAUTIFUL"]
>> (SINGING) You
are so beautiful.
You are so beautiful
that the sun shines just
to bless you, that
the moon glows just
the wind blows just
to touch you,
[VOCALIZING] angel.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> I'm 63 years old and actually
exist pretty much on Social
Security.
And it's under $700 a
month, and you're not
allowed to earn any
more than $70 past that.
So it just-- we plant
things and stuff like that,
and we just make it.
[LAUGHS]
>> Miss Pearl is a name you
hear over and over again in New
Orleans.
When we heard about her mission
to support traveling artists
by hosting them in her
home turned tent city,
we knew we had to meet her.
>> After sitting down with
her, we were blown away
by the remarkable story behind
Buskers Bunkhouse and how it
came to be.
[FLUTE MUSIC]
>> After Katrina, everyone
just showed up here
because the flooding stopped
just a few blocks away.
It's only 20% that didn't flood.
So we're moving on from this.
We laugh all of our laughter and
cry all of our tears, you know.
I kept people for years all
night, and now what I'm doing
is just keeping
buskers or artists.
They have to be in
some form of the arts.
They can come and
stay here for a while.
Right now I've only
got 3 people there,
but we've had as much
as 11 people before.
Sometimes I run
out of money if I
have to fix something or
something's real serious,
like I had to have
my tooth fixed.
And I run out of money
and really desperate,
so I go to the French
Quarter and I mime.
So you're out there
trying to busk,
and sometimes
people walk by you,
and they don't give you any
money, and sometimes they do.
But you can just so
hope, and you're just
looking as good as you
can, and you're just so
hoping that they'll tip you.
You don't need a whole
lot of money to live good,
and we should look out after
each others' interests.
>> If we're really going
to evolve as humanity,
you're only as strong
as your weakest link.
So if we're having a
situation where people are not
taken care of, even if we have
someone who's, like, you know,
living in a mansion,
what does that say?
>> It's just very interesting,
when I'm like, oh,
this person has a
billion dollars,
and there's hungry people?
I don't understand that.
It doesn't really
make too much sense.
But I can't really judge
it because, then again,
that's for them to do, and
for me to see and like,
OK, then what would I do
if I'm in that position?
[STRIDENT MUSIC]
>> Part of the reason that
I work with the larger
organizations is because 50%
of the population is employed
in those institutions.
Corporations are
cultures, so if they
can start to allow
an expansive culture,
they can have a huge,
positive impact on the world
that they have yet to have.
>> We as women and as women
business owners who've become
in control of our
financial destiny,
we're the ones that go out
there and recircuit abundance
and money to the
places that need help.
I so believe in
us, in our ability
to change the world
through business
and through philanthropy.
>> Our generation coming into
the workforce was really about
how to be like a man, if
you wanted to be successful.
I preferred dresses.
I really did.
They were more comfortable.
But the saying was, was
if you wore a dress,
then you were a secretary
for your whole life.
So if you wanted to have
other, better opportunities,
to move up, you
needed to wear a suit.
>> Thinking about in the '80s
and early '90s as we were
breaking through the glass
ceiling, we wore shoulder pads,
like we were out there--
[LAUGHS] and we
were like warriors,
you know, on the
field of battle.
>> I worked for an
international company,
and I traveled all
over the world,
and I was almost always one
of the only women in the room.
That's how it was for
the majority of women.
There were no role models.
It was truly like a boys' club.
I didn't believe that a
woman had to be like a man
to succeed in her career.
I just never believed that.
It wasn't about trampling
people as you went.
It was more about sort of
you kind of finding your way
and picking your spots.
And I just felt that you
had to be who you were,
and you had to want it, and
you had to use your intuition
and figure out how you
were going to get there.
>> I sit here now, and I
look at some of the 20--
or 20-somethings
and 30 somethings,
and they're the new generation.
There's a new wave.
They're not being brought
into the workforce saying,
as a woman, the
only way you can be
successful is to wear your
blue suit and red shirt.
>> Every day I come to work is
a reminder that we haven't done
enough.
I go to too many meetings in
which I'm the only female,
the only person of
color, the only person
from an underrepresented
group whatsoever.
I don't like it because it
really doesn't add value
to the product we're
building unless we really
have those diverse perspectives
and diverse ways of leading.
>> Just last year, I
was at a conference.
And at the end of
my presentation,
a woman came, and she said,
you actually did a good job.
I was so impressed.
And it is a compliment.
At the same time, if I want
to translate it in my mind,
is, you're better than I thought
because I have this perception
of people like you.
You don't walk into a
presentation with a white male
and go to him after his
presentation and say,
I didn't expect you
to be doing this well.
Actually, you did a good job.
I constantly get those kinds
of comments from people.
>> Whether it's in athletics,
or whether it's in executive
positions in the business world,
or whether it's in artistry,
I think that there is just a
general opinion in society that
men do it better.
But just the fact that I have
been a female musical director
in a largely male-dominated
field speaks volumes.
Is it unequal?
Yes, it is.
Can you do it?
Yes, you can.
>> No matter what industry you
go into, you're going to have
your insecurities, you're
going to have challenges,
you're going to have the
people who believe in you
and the people who don't.
And it's about you
enjoying the work you do
and valuing your contribution,
and that gets you ahead.
>> I'm Muslim--
Muslim, as you can
see, and believe
that women should be respected
for their intelligence
and their skills, not
for their body image.
And so people put
me in this category
of being very
religious and holding
on to traditional
religious values.
I'm actually not doing that.
You know, I talk about, for
example, gay, lesbian rights,
and people go, what?
You are talking about that?
I'm like, yes.
You can be thinking differently
in different situations.
I call myself a Muslim
feminist because I
think Muslim women have been
extremely misunderstood.
My spouse is not
religious at all.
And from the beginning
of our marriage,
he has said, I
respect your decision,
how you want to
identify yourself,
but I'm not
identifying with this.
He says, people think
that I am an oppressor.
Actually, in reality,
you are oppressing me.
And so he says,
nobody talks about how
I'm oppressed by your
presence in different places.
But we still joke about it,
and he says, one of these days,
you're going to emancipate
yourself, right?
And I say, yeah, and
one of these days,
you're going to get it, right?
[LAUGHS] That's
why I'm doing this.
>> You know, if I think back, I
was probably always a feminist.
I remember when I was
in the eighth grade,
and I had gone to
Catholic school.
And the group of girls that
were my friends at the time,
we were talking about who was
going to be class president.
And someone suggested one
of us, and someone else
said, oh, no, it
has to be a boy.
It's traditionally--
it's always--
and I remember
thinking, why, why, why?
[LAUGHS] You know, I didn't
like that, but I didn't--
I don't know that I
said much about it then.
>> You just have this major
resistance to really supporting
powerful women.
We haven't even had a
female president yet.
It's crazy to me.
Like, I wanted to see a
government that's at least
half women, at least half.
>> So even the movies, and
the industries, and the media,
they don't work on
empowering women.
>> (ON TV) Know your
role, and shut your mouth.
>> (ON TV) Women have become
the breadwinners in this country
and a lot of other concerning
and troubling statistics.
>> (ON TV) Women do earn less in
America because they choose to.
They're less ambitious.
They don't go the extra mile.
>> (ON TV) Why am
I sitting here?
>> (ON TV) They don't
work all weekend.
>> (ON TV) I'm sitting here.
>> (ON TV) You're
making a mistake.
You would be much happier at
home with a husband and chores.
>> (ON TV) Oh boy.
>> Those forces that want
to diminish a certain group
of people are out there, so we
have to be out there as well,
you know, always providing
that push and pull and that
environment of many ideas.
>> I remember coming home
from college after I had taken
my first class that taught
what feminist theory was,
and I asked my mom,
like, are you a feminist?
And she immediately was
like, no, that's man-hating.
And she had a completely
different opinions
to what my sociology
professor was telling me.
>> A lot of times, folks will
think of feminism as a dirty
word, and it's not at all.
It just means that a
woman is equal to a man.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> I think the ultimate
goal of feminism,
if you can reclaim
that word for yourself,
is really about women's
empowerment and that
women's empowerment is what
is going to change the world,
that half the population not
being empowered for the greater
history of humanity
is a huge problem.
And I think that's
the kind of issue
that you're taking
up with your project.
And maybe, in a
way, that will help
people relate to
what feminism could
be-- maybe not always
what it has been,
but where it could go.
>> It's so important for
women to find your strength
and your power internally and
gather together because we have
a lot of work to do
in saving our mother.
You know, we went on this
course of industrialization
and became drawn to individual
personal gain, and material
wealth, and all
those things that
are not going to
bring us joy, or love,
or save us from destruction.
It's like we stepped outside
the circle of life, really.
>> It's not my goals.
It's the goal for everybody.
We want everybody to have
jobs and have a participation
within our society,
within our community.
And I know that I can cook.
So even though I want to
be a pop star secretly,
I'm totally happy cutting
carrots, and I'm having a ball.
And I get to sing in the
kitchen, so that's cool.
And that's a way that I
can constantly participate
in the world in a positive way.
>> Everyone has something
unique or beautiful about them,
including me, including you,
including just a homeless
person on the street.
Everyone has something to add.
>> We all have the
spark of life within us,
whether you call it God,
Goddess, the Divine,
this animating life force
is in all of us equally.
We're made in the image and
likeness of this great source
energy.
>> There's all these
different type of religions,
and they swear they
have different gods,
but I don't necessarily
think it's that way.
I think that it's the same god.
They're just practicing
it differently.
They all talk to the same god.
It's just their
interpretation of that god.
>> It's a separation theology
versus oneness theology.
When we feel we are separate--
separate from God, like God's
out there, that sets up
that kind of judgment.
But if you shift that
to oneness theology,
that means that you're God.
I'm God.
The trees are God.
The bugs are God.
Everything--
everything is sacred.
>> If everybody understood
what is divine as part of them
and not over here, we could
never have had any of the isms
that took hold.
You know, if every
child knew that they
were daughter or
son of the goddess,
and that that was without
them and within them,
if that was all
part of the picture,
there'd be no such thing as
someone on the back of any bus.
>> Find the god within yourself.
Don't look outside
yourself for anybody--
>> Find and create in yourself--
>> --to determine what
your role in this game is.
It's fully up to you.
>> Whatever you want to
call it, there's a force.
And as soon as you make
that switch in your brain,
the force works with you.
Let the force be with
you, quoting "Star Wars."
[LAUGHS] You know, as soon
as the switch happens,
it just all runs smoothly.
>> Don't walk through this life
looking for what you can get.
Walk through this life
looking for what you can give.
I know without a doubt
that what you give
comes back to you tenfold.
>> We're all together
contributing a huge piece
of what makes things beautiful.
We all have a piece of peace.
>> When individual parts
reorganize into a larger whole,
it's like all these completely
new possibilities and new
capacities emerge that
weren't there before,
but you can't dissect that
and take it apart and find it
again.
They're not in the individual.
They're in the weaving
of the new connections.
That's what's going
to save us ultimately
because it's the synergy that's
going to be created by us
coming together with common
intent that are going to bring
forth all these amazing
solutions that we can't even
envision individually.
>> We grow the power
by sharing the power.
The goddess energy is
much more about inclusion,
and it's much more circular.
There's an understanding.
You take care of what there
is because you want it to come
around strong next time.
There is total recycling.
It's just an ideal
of how things work.
>> There's an inherent
polarity in the universe.
With yang, it's like the
expressive, the outward,
what we typically
think of of masculine.
And then yin is like that
inward quality, that softness,
that physical
interior, the darkness,
which has always been
represented by the goddess.
[SERENE MUSIC]
I have a very
personal relationship
with the Divine Feminine.
I was raised in a patriarchal
religion that edited her out
in a very subtle way
and decided to tell us
that she was too sacred to
mention, that praying to her
was not allowed, that
connecting with her
wasn't allowed because
it would besmirch her.
Now, that didn't make
sense to me as a mother.
I don't know any
mother that feels
like connecting with her
own children sullies her.
And I felt like
it was a big lie.
It was a way to say,
let's make her invisible.
Let's make her the
silent partner.
God does everything.
>> So I'm thinking about
our history, like his story.
His story is the
recorded endeavors
of all this yang energy,
and it's what has been seen.
But there's the
invisible history.
It is the silent
history of all the women
who have raised all these
children, all the wives, all
the lovers, all the priestesses
who have been there beside,
helping and offering
that love and that gift
that only the goddess
can give and provide,
so committed, and
silent, and humble.
>> I had been in service to
returning the Divine Feminine
to her place of balance,
her place of home,
her rightful place
in the family,
as an archetype,
an image of what we
can grow into as women.
>> As I develop my kind
of feminist, or womanist,
principle and started
understanding more about some
of the herstories and histories
of the world, you know,
it was important for me to
include in the conversation
the voice of us as women,
as entities in this world.
People have
different mythologies
and different origin
myths of whatever culture,
how humanity came to be, but
ultimately, I mean, we all
come from somebody's coochie.
[LAUGHS] You know what I'm
saying, and that's the given.
There's no mythologies to talk
about male-bodied people giving
birth.
So to me, herstory
makes the most sense.
>> I'm not a
biological determinist
but, it's, historically,
we have been the nurturers
and the keepers of life.
A ton of women around
the world know it,
so maybe there will
be a critical mass.
I would love to
live to see that.
>> My name is Magalie Bonneau.
I'm an artist, a producer,
and a facilitator.
I bring large groups
of people together
to share a new
narrative for humanity.
And I do that by organizing
dance flash mobs, dance
ceremonies, and also
large-scale ceremonies,
turning the Earth as a
canvas and making formations
that are seen from the sky.
We brought together
2,000 people.
Half of the
participants were men
who were forming a serpent that
were encircling the goddess.
The serpent was conveying
this symbol of transformation
and of protection,
while the goddess
was embodying this sense of
love and healing and nurturing.
She was incarnated
by 1,200 women.
And she was holding
the sun, who was full
of power, the
source of creation,
as well as the
moon, which reflects
our fears, our concerns,
the depth of what we
are beneath our consciousness.
And she was holding
both into balance.
Honoring the goddess and
making her on a large scale
is really about reconnecting
what's been disconnected
and expressing a
message that really
reflects the kind of world
we want to give birth to.
>> I do believe that there is
a paradigm shift in the world
that's begun.
And I think it has
absolutely upended
what's been for a lifetime this
sort of male-dominated energy.
>> It's not about a coming
back of matriarchal society
because we've had that,
and we've had patriarchal.
But it's about the
balance of the two
because we all, no
matter what sex, we
have those energies in us.
And so to really bring the
feminine back in a way that
is balanced will open up a lot
of changes and possibilities.
>> What's going to work is
the sacred marriage inside
of ourselves, where the
creative, intuitive, sensitive,
meditative, nurturing, gentle
part of myself is interfaced
in full embrace with my logical,
practical, getting-things-done,
solid part of me.
And these two are in
union with each other.
>> I almost have a--
[LAUGHS] a vision of big mama
arms coming in, you know,
like if they were coming
in around the globe.
[LAUGHS]
>> I think people are unaware
of it at a subconscious level,
but those of us that are
looking, she's everywhere,
always has been.
But she's everywhere.
>> She's the body of the fertile
Earth that gives us life,
the womb of creation.
But everything comes
through, comes out of,
and returns to-- she's
the space in the molecules
between my body.
And that's where I
reside, and that's home.
>> Whether it's
nurturing, connection,
a sense of community and
responsibility towards
our ecosystem, we have been
brought to this Earth to be
as alive as we can be.
And by inviting the
spirit of the goddess in,
that is like saying yes to life.
>> We are all goddesses, and
it's up to us to actually
realize that.
>> You know, women have to
understand that everything
about them is perfect and
profound and is meant to be
here.
And they are meant to be exactly
who they are and know that it's
OK for them to see themselves
as the divine embodiment
because that's really what
everyone is on this planet.
>> Women are creators.
They can create anything that
they want to create in life.
That's what we're blessed with.
We're that reminder,
the creation of life.
[SERENE MUSIC]
[SINGER VOCALIZING]
>> I feel I was blessed at a
very young age that I knew I
wanted to be a mother,
even though being "just"
a mother wasn't really
accepted by many of my peers
at the time, as though one
choice was inferior to another.
But as I discovered-- and I
think it was Eleanor Roosevelt
who said, "no one can make
you feel inferior without
your consent"--
and motherhood became my
most cherished endeavor.
I think what's equally important
in making a choice is owning
the choice that you make.
>> My name is Lindsay Rae Crapo,
and I'm currently parenting
eight children.
We're a biracial family--
Haitian, biological, and
Ukrainian, foster, and adopted.
Sometimes it's a mess, and
sometimes it's beautiful,
but it's all mine.
>> Over the past decade, Lindsay
and her husband have adopted
six children, many of whom are
overcoming obstacles that none
of us will face in
our entire lives.
She calls herself a trauma
mama because, each day, she
helps her children work through
issues, ranging from depression
and type 1 diabetes to
post-traumatic stress disorder.
She's dedicated her life
to healing her children
and sharing their
story in order to help
other families who
are experiencing
similar challenges.
>> What ideas and morals do
you feel are most important
to instill in your kids?
>> I know we're working on
tough love because I think one
of the biggest things is you
have to love yourself before
you're capable of
loving other people.
And another one which seems
really simple, but it's wanting
the good more than the bad.
I think people that
have seriously grown up
in shame and trauma,
they feel like that's
all that they deserve,
when really, we all deserve
beautiful.
We all deserve amazing.
We all deserve wonderful.
When you're parenting
children that
have extreme trauma
and attachment issues,
you're constantly rejected.
It brings up the past things
that you've gone through.
And so, you know, I
want to be angry at it,
but really it is me
interpreting rejection
that maybe I felt as a child.
Or your lack of being
capable of doing something
may be really a
fear that I still
have as a grown adult
that I can't do it,
and being able to recognize
where my shortcomings are,
and healing those in order
for me to be able to catch
my kids when they fall.
A lot of times when
things are really cruddy,
or someone's throwing
a tantrum, we dance.
We dance with it instead
of reveling in it.
And I think that
that's something
that my kids have
taught me because life's
too short to roll around
in it, so you might as well
just dance.
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> I really didn't get the
full scope of what it is to be
locked, to be so disoriented.
And that's what my daughter
brought me because she really
didn't sleep.
The more unbelievably
hard it got,
the more I learned to just
give over to this experience
and not be in control.
I was so driven by being
perceived as important.
I'm a public radio producer.
My work gets
nationally distributed.
I'm award-winning.
My daughter didn't
give a crap about that.
It was like the
little part of me
that didn't feel smart
when I was growing up,
or didn't feel good enough,
that somehow my career was
going to satiate that wound.
I just really learned
that the woman
that I'm here to become for
my daughter needs to be solid.
And if I am really scared
underneath my armor of success,
then it's a house of
cards because, in my home,
my kids really see who I am.
And no matter what
happens, they love me
because I'm showing up here.
>> I spent the last 25
years raising my kids,
and that was my priority.
And now, they're
grown, and I decided
that I was going to
go back to school
and try to become a
professional baker.
It was very scary at first.
I thought, oh my
gosh, I'm going to be
the oldest one in the class.
But I got past that
first day and realized,
gosh, there's a lot of
people my age in the class,
and they feel the same way.
If there's something you
need to do in your life,
and you want to do it,
you could still do it.
You could still
raise your children.
If you decide you want
to go back to work,
if you decide you want
to go back to school,
you could definitely do it.
And you'll be a much better
person for your children
if you're happier.
>> Whether it's through
choosing to have a child or not,
choosing to plant that garden,
there is something that is
so potent in that
ability to give life.
And I chose not
to have children,
and yet, it's not that I didn't
become a mother in my own way.
There are things
that I mothered,
people that I mothered,
projects that I mothered,
and so that, it is that ability
to give life and nurture it.
>> We do have unique callings,
and there's no degradation
of the woman whose
calling is to be a mother.
That's every bit as
valid as the woman
who wants to be the
next Oprah Winfrey.
And if you have
no desire to have
an actual child
in this lifetime,
but you have all of
this other inspiration--
[CHILD YELLING]
--that you want to do,
that's valid as well.
>> I want to leave a legacy.
[MUSIC - ANGELA CAROLE BROWN,
"TICKET HOME"]
I don't have children.
I don't have a husband.
I don't have that
kind of family.
So for me, you know,
my legacy is my art.
(SINGING) And there's no--
And I believe I was put here to
contribute that to the world,
you know, something
that outlives me.
(SINGING) Maybe then you
can find your ticket home.
>> We learned so early
in our lives that,
if you're not doing
certain types of activity,
then you're not part
of the creative group.
And it's amazing how
you can limit yourself
when you think that
you're not allowed to play
in that part of the playground.
>> There is so much--
so many forces, not just from
parents, but from schools,
from society, that that
childhood dream-like excitement
starts getting squished
and stifled and stifled,
and then we start to accept
the beliefs of the world.
>> Well, to be successful,
you've got to have
a high-paying job, so
you can have a big house.
>> And have a mortgage
and 2.5 children.
>> That you're
supposed to have a job,
that you work these hours.
>> You pay the rent.
You get the salaries
coming every month.
>> And it's like all the stuff
and all the context take away
your options.
>> This is where you
fit in this world,
and you don't belong anywhere
else, so don't even try.
Those are messages that I
know we're bombarded with.
>> How am I supposed to fit this
who-I-am-ness into that box?
And where did the box come from?
>> Somebody said the other day
to me, she said something like,
oh, so how do you make money?
I was like, you
know, I make clothes.
She said, that's
how you survive?
I said, no, I don't survive
off of making clothes.
I live off of it.
We didn't come here
to just suffer.
We came here to learn.
We came here to experience,
and we came here
to live in abundance.
>> We really are misguided in
the world about what's valuable
and what's possible.
And I think a lot of
great, creative energy
is wasted that way.
>> It's important to
have a vision, like,
a clear vision of what you
want and of who you want to be.
I have to do a lot of
self-encouraging, which
is pretty exhausting at times,
but I think that a lot of women
have to do that.
And then, women
of color or people
who are gay, women
who are queer, too,
just, like, you have to do that
more and more with each added
oppression.
Right now, a lot
of other people are
at those same crossroads
where they're not
fitting into any specific
categories of what, you know,
you're supposed to do,
depending on, like,
your gender or your
race or your sexuality.
I feel like, in
the world, there's
not that many visual
images of women
of color in all different
aspects of life,
and so I'm trying to just
make that readily available
for people.
I just feel like it's
important to have
people be able to see themself.
Mainstream media and art
doesn't really do that.
>> I think women are
lacking representation,
and I think I will just
have a lot of work to do.
Well, that's why I'm
here in New York,
and that's why I'm
a photographer.
The idea of creating
this goddess
is actually to create
a future for woman.
What kind of woman we want
to be, what kind of woman
we want to see.
She can be as strong as a
man, sensitive like a kid,
emotional like a woman, and
combine those things together,
she will become a
different vision
of the woman of the future.
[JAZZ-FUNK MUSIC]
>> I am a metal sculptor.
I sustain myself solely on
the metalwork that I do.
The underlying concept
in my sculpture
would be that metal is a pretty
rigid, masculine material,
so I try to bend it and make
it look a little bit more
like fabric, or organic.
And I'm looking to
bring girl to the metal.
>> Fire art, metal art is
not a female-friendly field
in general, and so that is a
large part of what we tried
to create here is a space where
women feel empowered to do
something they've
never done before.
>> When you look at these
sculptures that we make,
it looks like you have to
be really tough to make this
thing.
But it's less about
physical strength,
but it's more about being
smart with your body
and smart about the tools.
You know, I don't have to be
a big, tough guy to do that.
>> I do think you can do a lot
by putting your mind to things,
but, you know, it doesn't
negate all of the class and race
issues we have in this country.
But it sure helps, and it's not
a bad way to live your life,
is focusing on what you do want
to do and believing you can do
it.
>> I said, OK, what do I want?
I want to write.
I want to be a writer,
and, you know, I was like--
and I wanted to vomit,
like, I just felt like--
[LAUGHS] OK, now I've said it.
Now I have to do
something with this.
It's OK.
I would spend a
year being a writer.
If I can do this
on my own, then I
can prove to myself
that this is for real.
Within a few weeks,
I had started a blog.
I started a writers' group.
Then, you know, these
small acts of intention
behind this dream that I
just declared one night
started to become momentum.
>> If you show up for work every
day, no matter how you feel,
then the muses say, OK,
you're showing up for work.
And we're going to let
you be part of that world.
>> Even if you
choose, like, well,
that's not really what I
want to pursue as a career,
if it's something that's in
you, you got to do it always,
even if you're not trying to put
it out there in a public way,
just doing it for
the sake of soul.
>> Just try something.
Take a class.
Do something.
You never know what
you're going to unearth.
And then when you do
unearth that, it--
whatever your gift is, you're
going to feel so much joy,
and you're just not even going
to know how you lived before.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> What is the
purpose of our life?
Why are we here?
We are on this Earth
only for one reason,
and that is to serve as
each other's examples.
If you're without a leg,
and I don't look at you
and appreciate my leg, then the
loss of your leg is worthless,
isn't it?
The only purpose
for our existence
is to serve as examples
for each other.
>> When you have people looking
at you all the time in these
ways, like, you have to kind
of step out of yourself,
look at yourself, and
be like, OK, well,
I'm going to make this
really spectacular then,
because everyone's looking
and paying attention,
so I should have something
to say or something to show.
I'm fat, and I am queer,
and I have a fake leg.
And these are all things that
could make someone judge me,
but I don't care because
I'm here to spread love.
It's my purpose.
Here I am.
>> If I say my truth that I
know is being whispered to me,
that I'm scared to say, then
there's going to be someone
else that I'm going to
be connected to, who,
they're going to be like, oh my
god, I'm so glad you said that.
>> Too often, we
are embarrassed,
or we are fearful
about being vulnerable.
And it's only by really
being honest about what's
going on inside that
we find our own peace
and that we're able to
mysteriously address something
that someone else has
been going through.
>> If you just touch one person
for just a little, tiny moment,
you know, you don't know how
profound that might have been
for that person.
>> We can be forces of
understanding that life is
complicated, and it's painful,
and it's gut-wrenching,
and it's beautiful, and that
each of us comes to this place
is such a miracle.
And I think that that connection
to this raw, unknowable mystery
is a gift that women
bring to this planet.
>> We kind of owe it to
ourselves and everybody else
to just kind of keep on getting
up every morning and finding
a reason to do that.
So it's a constant seeking
and searching kind of process
that you wake up.
And even if you're in
the most desperate mood,
you still wake up,
and lay there, and go,
OK, think of one good
reason to get up.
I don't know-- waffles.
[LAUGHS]
And I don't care if
it's a bad reason.
I don't care if
it's like, I can't
wait to have that first
cigarette, you know,
it's still going to
get you up out of bed
and moving through your life.
And then you've
got an opportunity
to make a difference in people's
lives, or at least to just
to have a thought
that makes you happy
or have a smile,
to see a rainbow.
I mean, I know that
sounds cheesy as all hell,
but seriously, it's
still fabulous.
>> It's so important that,
no matter what you're doing,
even when you feel like
you're doing something wrong,
that you approve of yourself
because if you don't approve
of yourself, no one
else is going to.
>> Everyone has
their insecurities.
It's the truth.
It's real.
We all have our faults.
We all have our flaws.
You know, we've all made
mistakes in our lives,
but if we could just pick
ourselves up and just
realize that it's evolution
that will never actually end.
We are always going
to be growing.
>> You know, flowers
are not always blooming.
She loses her leaves.
She loses her petals.
She roots more strongly.
She grows the next year.
And her scent never
smells the same.
So what she's creating,
her essence, her power,
is always different.
She's always in transformation.
>> As women, we need to believe
in ourselves and our abilities
to contribute more and value
everything we do in terms
of contributing to society.
We need to look at the
opportunities we have in life,
and use the
multi-dimensional thinking
that women have
in our advantage,
and change the
society for better.
>> A lot of oppression is
getting people to feel that
they can't do anything
for themselves.
Once we collectively
get over that,
it will be really
good for us all.
>> Yes, there are things
that suck out there.
Yes, I hate the politics
and the politricks.
I want to acknowledge it.
I want to talk about it.
I want to wake people up,
and I don't want to sit in it
and marinate in it.
>> The key is to find all of
the good stuff and give that
as much of a presence.
>> Those of us that are trying
to be advocates and think about
social justice, we
have to be hopeful.
Look at the strengths
instead of weaknesses
because if we want to look
at what's not working,
there are a lot of
things not working.
But if you look
at what's working,
there are a lot of
projects and people
that are advocating
for differences.
So I'm hoping we all continue
to be passionate about what
we believe in.
>> You don't help someone who's
sick by being part of the sick.
You don't help people who
are afraid by becoming
part of the fearful.
We can be part of the
solution by not creating
a fertile ground for the racism,
and the homophobia, and all
the rest of it to
have much foothold.
That is the job of each person.
If you can at least keep
your spirit up for the day,
you've done a big thing.
>> It's we as a people rising
to recognize that we have
the ability to respond
to everything around us,
starting with ourselves
and moving out from there.
>> Your life is
really in your hands.
And no matter what you've
been taught, no matter what
you've been exposed to,
at the end of the day,
it's you, sister.
[PIANO MUSIC]
>> At the end of our road
trip across the United States,
we shot over 300 hours of
footage and visited 30 states
in search of women
from all walks of life.
We lived out of the
Goddess Bus for six months
and ran it on recycled
vegetable oil whenever possible.
The vehicle had a bed,
five drawers, and cabinets
to hold dry food and equipment.
Living without amenities in
the hot summer on a budget
proved to be a challenge.
We worked out of coffee shops
and the dinner tables of kind
strangers and learned how
to interview and film women
as we went.
We sat down with artists,
mothers, healers,
businesswomen, and
scholars and discussed
what shaped them to
become who they are today.
Although each of their lives
were so different from ours,
we saw parts of ourselves
in all of these women.
Hearing their stories
bridged the gaps
between our differences
and showed us
how similar many of our
struggles really are.
Honoring the goddess
is not about what
you look like or
do for a living,
but about celebrating the
experience of womanhood,
finding what brings you joy,
and making a positive impact
on the world around you.
We met women who were passionate
about building self-esteem,
satellites, companies, families,
and everything in between.
But in the end, we realized
that the true power of women
is our ability to
create and nurture.
The women in this
film have shown us
that, with vision,
love, and resilience,
we can overcome
obstacles and give birth
to the life of our dreams.
>> Whether it is journeying
down to the depths of your own
shadow and unearthing the light
or giving birth to a creative
project, the journey you
go through to get there is
mirrored in the process of
actual physical childbirth.
Before a child is conceived,
ideally, a woman's body
is cleansed of any
toxins, and she's
getting really good
nutrition, and she's
come to a space
inside of herself
emotionally where she knows
who she is and feels fulfilled
in her life, so that
when she does take
on the creation
of this new life,
she's giving from the overflow.
So the first step is
eliminating any distractions,
anything that's
diminishing the fullness
and the power of who we are.
And then, it's allowing yourself
the space to have a dream,
have a vision, find
your inspiration.
>> I think the muses go around,
and they tap people for certain
things.
If you get tapped, and you have
an idea for something, do it.
>> Whatever our
soul's purpose here,
if you give it just
a little window,
it wants to burst through.
[SOLEMN MUSIC]
>> What makes your heart sing?
What sets you on fire?
What are you crazily
curious about?
And that fantasy, the
most far-reaching thing
that you really
want, but, you know,
your conscious mind is
telling you that, oh, well,
that's not practical,
and that takes hard work,
and it takes years, and
you have to go to school,
and all these other things
that are telling you
why it won't work-- ignore
them and just do it.
>> There's a really beautiful
idea that all we need
to actualize our soul's
purpose in this world,
all we need is the willingness.
All of the raw materials
will come to the surface
if we're just willing
to surrender and allow
that process to happen.
And just like a woman
is pregnant with a baby,
she's not thinking, oh, I
have to make the arm grow,
and now I have to make
the brain stem split
into the spinal cord.
She's just nourishing herself,
and so the baby is nurtured.
>> If you have that idea
and hold that space for it,
it will grow.
It will expand.
It will define itself.
You know, if you talk to any
artist, they get to that point
where the idea is right.
They've laid all the
groundwork, and they're
like, when does this
get to come through me?
>> I think everyone who's--
decides that they have to stand
up, and they have to
follow their true calling,
goes through dark
night of the soul.
There's the sense of,
I'm not good enough,
and I don't know what
I'm doing, and aren't
I supposed to have some kind
of certificate from somebody
higher up that
says I can do this?
>> There you are again, that
little nagging, you know,
I'm not good enough voice.
>> For a long time, fear would
make me say no, and that just--
that's just no fun.
>> I'm, like, doing
it right now--
those voices in my head that
tell me that I can't or that
I'm not.
>> I don't know if I
can really make this,
or I don't know if I can
really do these things.
>> I'm not good enough.
I'm not capable enough.
>> That's the contraction.
And the contraction is
supposed to be there.
It has to be there.
Without it, there
would be no opening.
The fear is not
something to avoid.
It's something to
relax into and trust
that it's part of the process.
>> If it terrifies you, you're
probably moving in the right
direction.
[LAUGHS] If it feels
safe and warm and fuzzy,
and, you know,
perfect, then you're
probably doing what
you've always done.
And that's why it never
seems to be moving forward.
>> If you're pursuing
your dreams at the moment,
and you're coming up against
your fear and your worries,
and it's difficult,
and it's hard,
I just want you to know
that you are not alone.
And yes, it takes a lot
of courage, and faith,
and determination,
and persistence,
and hard work to pull it
off, but it is 100% worth it.
[LAUGHS]
>> As this opening
starts to happen,
and create more and more space
for this life and this creative
endeavor to come through,
then we hit transition,
which is the point
where you're fully open,
you're fully ready
to start pushing,
and things feel unmanageable.
That can be a
really dark moment.
It almost defies words,
when you get to that point
where you're just on your knees.
And you're like, I've
given this everything.
I have to give
something, and I don't
have any more strength left.
>> When you think that you
really want to give up,
you are a second away from
making everything come true.
>> Even though you can't see it,
what's right around the corner
is that opening that you've
been waiting for, and working
for, and sweating
for, and praying for.
Whatever it is that
your calling is,
that's when it's time to
really let that energy out
in full force.
The opening has been created.
Now the light is at
the end of the tunnel,
and it's time to shine.
>> Do what makes you happy.
Do what you love and
shine that brightly.
And then other people will
see that that's a possibility.
>> What are you going to do with
the little space between born
here and died here?
How we show up and how we
use our time, and our focus,
and our energy, and our love
makes all the difference.
>> It's by the stories that we
tell about each other that we
can continue the momentum
that we have to keep our--
moving forward as individuals
and as a whole society.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
>> Nobody's going to do
it if we don't do it.
Nobody's going to do
"The Goddess" film,
but you are-- nobody.
If you had said no
to this mission,
we wouldn't be in this park, I
mean, so it's a ripple effect.
By saying yes to
this calling that
whispers to us to do this,
or go there, or see this--
if we say yes to
that, then we truly
are unfolding the goodness.
>> Do not hide your light.
Let it shine where others
see their possibility
in your reality.
>> So it's like our job is to
go out in the world and be big.
>> Live a bigger life that
may not even feel comfortable
for us so that other people
can look at that and go, wow.
If she can do that, then
maybe I can use my dream, too.
[UPLIFTING MUSIC]
[MUSIC - ANNA PARDENIK, "I WANT
IT TO BE WORTHY"]
(SINGING) I was
planted by the pain.
I was buried in the shame,
but now my eyes are wide open.
I was paralyzed with fear.
I was drowning in
a sea of tears,
but now my eyes are wide open.
And I see that I am beautiful.
I see that I am powerful.
I see that I am able to do
anything and everything.
And I know that I am capable.
My spirit is unbreakable.
And no one's ever gonna
take my self-respect away.
I was exploited and oppressed.
I was a damsel in distress,
but now my eyes are wide open.
I was riddled with self-doubt.
I saw no way of breaking out,
but now my eyes are wide open.
And I see that I am beautiful.
I see that I am powerful.
I see that I am able to do
anything and everything.
And I know that I am capable.
My spirit is
unbreakable, and no one's
ever gonna take my
self-respect away.
[VOCALIZING]
Eyes wide open, eyes wide
open, eyes wide open.
If you dare to bring others,
we'll see their possibilities
in your reality.
I was guilty of no crime,
but still I served my time.
And now, my eyes are wide open.
I was objectified and used.
I was battered.
I was bruised, but now
my eyes are wide open.
And I see that I am beautiful.
I see that I am powerful.
I see that I am able to do
anything and everything.
And I know that I am capable.
My spirit is unbreakable.
And no one's ever gonna
take my self-respect away
because I see that
I am beautiful.
I see that I am powerful.
I see that I am able to do
anything and everything.
And I know that I am capable.
My spirit is unbreakable.
And no one's ever gonna
take my self-respect away.